Current Project Update Status

Current Project Progress Notes - Fall 2024

Current wet-lab research into Hepatitis B Viral particles involves modeling antibodies and various procedures around the Reference Sequence. However, this approach is outdated. In order to understand the bimolecular mechanics of Hepatitis B in-situ, it is crucial to understand the viral entry mechanisms of Hep-B particles. On the surface proteins present, the L-HsABg Gene codes for the large surface protein, which contains the S, Pre-S1 and Pre-S2 domains. Thus far, our efforts have been focused on determining a consensus sequence, or a DNA-sequence that encompasses the most common nucleotide for each position in the genome for the L-HsABg gene. This has been especially challenging due to various sorting criteria that needed to be implemented, such as Genotype variability, ORF match between start and stop codons as well as different genome lengths for the data provided by NCBI. Our goal currently is to make AlphaFold predictions of the Reference and Consensus sequence of Hep-B Genotypes A, D and E. By using the variability across each data point in every position of the nucleotide and protein sequence as a B-Factor, the predicted structures will resemble
the most common 3d determination of the virus. With this result, we will perform a series of biochemical tests to grow a cell-line infected with  Hep-B in order to test custom antibodies that efficiently bind to exposed sites as displayed by the predictions. These next steps pose various
challenges, including growing a viable cell-line, transfection of virus into cells as well as isolation of antibodies in media.

Primary analysis of the 2H5 cell line proved to be unsuccessful in recombination experiments. After using dH5-alpha competent cell line, we ran into problems with self-ligation of plasmids on control plates. After some experimentation, we were able to determine the cause and perform  proper uptake of plasmid without confounding the results. After running the samples through SDS-PAGE, we were able to extract the fragments from post-PCR extraction with ample concentration. This provided us a sufficient basis to conduct a similar process after determining the full consensus sequence.

With sufficient expression of viral particles, we plan on using Negative-Staining EM and cryo-ET to capture particles in viral entry stages. This study will provide a pathway to understand viral replication cycles in greater detail from a structural biology perspective, allowing us to create medical interventions for already infected patients. A sole presence of vaccines and lack of therapeutic treatments for Hep-B currently shows that this research is necessary for human health and battling virus mutations. Through initial analysis, we found that several cycles of mutations in viruses have surface protein regions that remained unchanged throughout time. This gives us a target for research, which we hope to exploit in our research this year.
